Now let's look at
Formatting Print Statements.
Here's some variables
that we'll work with, and
here is a string we want to print.
It'll have name, colon, and
then we intend to put the name
Teddy Roosevelt into that slot.
And his age and his weight here.
Here is an example.
In the first one,
we put his shortened version of
his name Teddy in age and weight.
So there's Teddy Roosevelt, age, weight.
In the second one,
we used a longer version of his name, and
you see that it caused age and
weight to move over.
One of the things that we might
typically want is to have these aligned
a little bit better.
Here's another formatting string.
And in the 0 slot,
we're allowing 26 spaces,
in the 1 slot 4 spaces, and
in the 2 slot 10 spaces.
This is minimum number of spaces allowed.
Also, this right arrow indicates
right alignment within that space.
Let's see what that looks like.
So Teddy Roosevelt is right aligned
within a space of 26 characters and
the long version and
the short version are both lined up
one above another in a nice fashion.
The ages are aligned up and
the weights are aligned up.
Now the weight is too many decimal places.
So I'm going to change that a little bit.
In this case we're going to say that
the weight is going to have at least
five spaces, two of which are to
the right of the decimal.
This is a floating point number.
So here it is.
At least five spaces two to
the right of the decimal.
It looks nicer.
Now one of the things that we can
do is use this string down here,
this variable name instead
of the actual string.
It gives you the same result.
And this is more compact.
I want you to try some of this and
get familiar with what is actually done.
Here's a short string.
What I've got here is a string
that begins start bar bar and
ends with bar bar end.
So that you can see that this string got
fitted into here and it is left justified.
If we printed the number into that
space the string is exactly the same.
But we're sticking in the number.
The number is right-aligned instead
of left-aligned like the string.
Here's an exercise I'd like you
to do to become familiar with it.
I want you to take a string S
and a format statement like I just used.
And try various things with it.
Use 0 to just print the string
with no formatting.
If I press up arrow,
I'll bring this back up.
And I can put the 0 there, press Enter.
That's what it does.
Now you can up arrow it, and use :25.
See what it does, so why don't you go down
through this list and
try all of these options.
Here's what I get when I do it.
Here are my solutions.
Start zero end.
Format s allow 25 spaces,
here's 25 spaces right aligned,
here's 25 spaces left aligned and
here's 25 spaces centered